docs(security-and-permissions): preamble, new sections (#14570)
renovatebot/renovate: docs/usage/security-and-permissions.md

# Security and Permissions

This page talks about our security stance, and explains what permissions are needed for the different ways you can run Renovate.

## Security Stance

Renovate is open source software, and comes with no guarantees or warranties of any kind.

> That said, we will try to fix security problems in a reasonable timeframe if possible.

Author: Please check with your legal team about what promises you're willing to make here. 😉

> If you need commercial level support then use INSERT OUR COMMERCIAL OFFERING HERE.

Author: I think we want people to use WhiteSource Renovate On Premises if they want commercial level support?

Reviewer: I'm happy to leave out this line

### No certifications

> Renovate does **not** have ISO 27001 or SOC2 certification.

Author: I'm adding a certification section because it was asked about by a potential customer.

### How to report a security problem

> If you discover any important bug with Renovate that may pose a security problem, please disclose it confidentially to [renovate-disclosure@whitesourcesoftware.com](mailto:renovate-disclosure@whitesourcesoftware.com) first, so that it can be assessed and hopefully fixed prior to being exploited.

Reviewer 2: Would it be worth also advertising this information in a .well-known/security.txt a la [https://securitytxt.org/](https://securitytxt.org/)

Author: We already have the same information in our readme.md file.

Do we really want to have three copies of this information? It will get tricky keeping it up to date.

Author: @rarkins What do you think of publishing a `security.txt` file on our documentation site? I have given my thoughts in the comment above.

Reviewer: Sure, we should do that too! I think it's a good idea to support all the ways people might try to reach you

Author: I created issue:

- https://github.com/renovatebot/renovatebot.github.io/issues/152

Please do not raise GitHub issues for security-related doubts or problems.

## Permissions

We only request those permissions we need for our apps to do useful work.
If we do not need a specific permission, we will not request it.

> We also limit each permission to the lowest level possible.

Author: Please check if I'm describing our stance on permissions correctly here.

Reviewer: I think you could summarize it as "We apply the Principle of Least Authority (POLA) but do need substantial privileges in order to perform our functionality"

Author: ```suggestion
We apply the Principle of Least Privilege (PoLP) but do need substantial privileges in order for our apps to work.
```

How about something like this?

I don't know which of these is most commonly used:

- Principle of Least Authority
- Principle of Least Privilege
- Principle of Minimal Privilege

# Security and Permissions

This page talks about our security stance, and explains what permissions are needed for the different ways you can run Renovate.

## Security Stance

Renovate is open source software, and comes with no guarantees or warranties of any kind.
That said, we will try to fix security problems in a reasonable timeframe if possible.

### No certifications

> Renovate does **not** have ISO 27001 or SOC2 certification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renovate the Open Source project does **not** have ISO 27001 or SOC2 certifications.
WhiteSource the company, which maintains Renovate and operates the hosted Renovate App for GitHub, does have ISO 27001 and SOC2 certifications.
```

# Security and Permissions

This page talks about our security stance, and explains what permissions are needed for the different ways you can run Renovate.

## Security Stance

Renovate is open source software, and comes with no guarantees or warranties of any kind.
That said, we will try to fix security problems in a reasonable timeframe if possible.

> If you need commercial level support then use INSERT OUR COMMERCIAL OFFERING HERE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
